In this video we're going to go a bit
deeper and look at setting up into the
tree within our player class and that's
going to show you the concept of storing
multiple items within a class. Now just
to recap we've seen how we could store
objects in our classes where we added a
weapon object to the player class at the
moment we're just storing a single
weapon we can change it by replacing it
with another weapon.
So let's actually review how that works
you know I've left the a code that was
run at the end of the last video and
towards the end you can see that it's
showing if we scroll up a little bit
firstly there's been here sowing tip at
level one last three weapons source and
damage 10 now Tim that gives the sword
to Louise you can see there's an
expletive output here the middle part or
you could say that Louise takes the
sword from Tim depending how you want to
look at it and we can also see the
details in follow ways which is now
outputting a sword then Tim picks up the
spear if we can scroll down to have a
look and you can see that final output
that's the final call to Tim's macho
functioned prince the spear with 14
points of damage
so objects can contain references to
other objects so here a player object
called Tim as a field that contains a
reference to a weapon object that's a
spear so that's great for modeling the
real world or a fantasy world in the
case of an adventure game now you can
have a house object for example that
contains room objects that themselves
have window door and wall objects and if
you gave those window door and wall
objects some properties representing the
materials they're made of and things
like the thermal conductivity of the
material then you could model the heat
loss of different houses so that could
that you design energy-efficient houses
now that's great where the player has
got one and only one weapon but what
about a house so house hasn't only got
one wall that's just a wall so so we
often want to store multiple references
to things so we're going to give our
players inventory to track things that
they have picked up in the game tops of
things like potions or rings or armor
where there could be many items now
obviously we don't want to have to
create one variable for each type of
item because we don't know in advance
how many items the plan will collect
so we wouldn't want to try and guess and
create a new property for every single
item that the player may pick up in
other words we wouldn't want to do
something like this if we go back to the
player class so we wouldn't want to do
something on these lines their weapon -
their weapon 3 their weapon 4 and so on
that could be severely limiting as well
as wasting memory if they had fewer
weapons then we allocate properties for
so I just like that
what we really want is some way of
storing a list that we can add things to
or remove things from without having to
worry about how many items there are now
we can actually do that using something
called it ArrayList
so let's actually set that up so I've
deleted those extra weapons that I just
typed in so the first thing we're going
to do though is create another class
then this class will hold the details
for the inventory items that will be
storing in the list now inventory item
is a good name for these things but the
use of the word item you can get
confusing that's because there are items
in lists now anything the player picks
up in the course of the game will be
known as loot so that's a good name for
this class so let's go with that so I'm
going to right click on the Java folder
new selector Kotlin file class select
class under the drop-down although I
could have left in us and we wanted to
without charging that and then just type
loot obviously we've done that a few
times now I'll show you so you should be
fairly familiar with that process all
right so we've called the class loot now
this class is going to have a few
properties one of them will be the name
each piece of loot will have a name so
we know what it is but let's also have a
type now the type will be used to store
what kind of loot we've got whether it's
a potion or a ring or perhaps it's some
armor so we want to be able to break it
down so we know what kind of thing each
and every bit of loot we've got is so
what we're going to do is use something
that we call an enum now an enum is a
way of storing multiple choices for
something so if you think of an INT or
property that we declared to being it
can have an infinite number of values
but if we've only got a few
is that a property can have then that's
where a Needham's really useful so we're
going to call our enum loot type let's
add some code I'm going to type this
above the class definition we're going
to type in um plus loot type writing the
capitalization and word loot and type
then curly braces then within there
we're going to type potion all in
uppercase cover ring in uppercase comma
then armor I'm just going to put a space
after the ending definition for the enum
and before the class now the convention
is to use all capitals for the values in
an enum and that way they stand out when
you read the code and you don't spend
time wondering where the variable called
potion is declared one advantage of
using any know is that you can only
assign one of those defined values to a
looot type field any leak that players
pick up in other words has to either be
a potion a ring or AMA so that's the
three types of loot that players may
pick up while playing the game you
officer you could add more but I'm gonna
stick with those three types for this example
alright so let's give our loot objects
and properties go back to the class line
definition we're going to add some
parentheses and we're going to start by
typing Val space name colon string cover
val type colon recording that loot type
no single type to loot top then comma
val value colon double with a capital D
so each piece of loot will have a name
and a type the other type we will be one
of our loot types potion ring or armor
now we also store a value for the loot
so we know what each piece is worth and
I'm using a double for the valley so
that we can work in dollars and cents
say that lets us have valleys like
twelve dollars fifty for example so
that's our basic loot class now each
particular item is going to be in a
player's it inventory is going to have a
name a type and a value assigned to it
so now we want to go back to the player
class and store our loot somehow so
let's go back to the player class
now we could cut down under the weapon
definition now what we can't do is just
do something like this their loot loot
the problem with that is it's only going
to store a single piece of loot what we
want is a list of some sort and Java
provides a few different types of Lists
that we can use and I know it said Java
rather than Kotlin there but I'm going
to come back to that so here we're going
to use something called an ArrayList so
I'm going to come back and delete that
and make the ver Val we're going to call
it inventory equals ArrayList and then
add a comment and then put loot in the
middle of that then we need to add left
or right curly braces on the Internet
all right so you can see there that the
Declaration of typing looks slightly
different to the other fields now the
reason for that is because our inventory
array list will contain other objects we
need to tell Kotlin what kind of objects
it'll contain but we don't have to do
that in fact the Java collections
classes will quite happily that you
store just about anything in them the
problem with that though is we don't
want to allow the program to store
players or weapons in this list if we
did that we'd have problems when we came
to calculate the total value of our loot
now if there was a player stored in the
list for example then the program would
crash well we try to access the player's
value field now we're not allowing
slavery in this game so players don't
have a monetary value by specifying loot
inside the angle brackets here as you
can say that I've done on line 7 we're
restricting the ArrayList to only hold
objects of type loot and we can't then
store other objects in the list now the
ArrayList comes from Java or comes with
Java and it's in the Java dot util
package and it takes care of storing
things in the list for us and that's why
I referred to Java classes earlier and
we can see that by holding down the ctrl
key and clicking on a raela store I'm
going to hold down command because I'm
on a Mac you know cotton was using a
type alias there so you can see on the
screen so that we can refer to a ray
list instead of the full Java name of
Java dot util dot ArrayList and that
saves typing but we're still using the
Java ArrayList class in our code so
you'll hear me
to Java classes throughout the course
because Kotlin uses a lot of the Java
classes and actually most of the android
framework still written in java now if
you want more information on the java
ArrayList class and the things you can
do with it there's some documentation
that i'll briefly show you now so I'm
just going to load a browser it's gonna
have a quick look so there's our
ArrayList and if you scroll down and
have a look at some of the methods in
the method summary here than others
great there's a method to add new items
to the list as you can see up here and
in fact there's two add methods the
second one lets us add items at a
specific position in the list we're also
going to clear function there a bit
further down if you scroll down we've
also got to remove as well and oh
there's also a get function as well so
that we can use that to access the
intervention items in the list but we'll
use that probably in the next video so
the ArrayList class provides a load of
methods for manipulating the contents of
the list we're going to be looking at a
few of those methods next so that we can
get a feel for how to use them now
whenever you're using the Java classes
or the android framework classes that so
we're going to look at throughout the
course check out the documentation to
see what you can do with them. Alright so
let's so go back to our code and what
I'll do is I'll end the video here in
the next one we'll continue on and we'll
start making use of this ArrayList so
I'll see you in the next video.